## Activity Objectives:

By the end of this activity, students will be able to:

Perform a detailed forensic investigation of an email by examining its header, body, and metadata.Identify key elements such as the sender's IP address, email routing path, and authentication results (SPF, DKIM, DMARC) to detect potential spoofing or phishing attempts.Analyze the email body for malicious links, attachments, and suspicious content to uncover signs of fraud, phishing, or malware.Use email metadata and timestamps to reconstruct the email’s origin, chain of custody, and identify unusual patterns or tampering.Apply investigative techniques to detect red flags such as unauthorized forwarding rules, unusual email behavior, and metadata discrepancies.

## Activity Instructions:

**Step 1:** Come up with a company name, this is the name you will put in your report!!!

**Step 2:** Read the scenario below prior to performing the forensic investigation of the email evidence provided. 

**Step 3:** Assume proper chain of custody and hash the zip file using MD5 and SHA256 before beginning.

**Step 4:** Examine the email evidence and record what information you are able to gather such as:
- Date and Time
- Sender's & Recipient's Email Address
- Personas (aliases, phone numbers, email addresses, IP address associated with each person)
- User Behavior (unusual login locations, mailbox activity, etc.)
- Language and Tone
- Relationships to Individuals 

> Make sure you hash every email artifact you find to ensure the integrity and authenticity of evidence, as well as maintain a clear chain of custody that ensures that findings are admissible in court and trusted.

### Activity Scenario:

Alex, a wealthy businessman with Krasnovian ties contacts Carry, a Krasnovian supporter in the US. Alex is seeking to embarrass America and damage public relations by defacing Foreign Art, belonging to Majavia and currently on display in the National Gallery during the month of July. Alex knows Carry through her Krasnovian parents, who also have strong anti-American sentiments.

Alex contacts Carry through her father and recruits her to assist with his cause. He is sending some ‘tourists’, Krasnovian militants, to Washington, DC to do the deed. Carry is to develop the plan to get them into the museum with the tools they need to damage the artwork.

Tracy works as a supervisor at the National Gallery and is an acquaintance of Carry. Carry contacts Tracy and starts communicating small data as a back and forth under the auspices that Carry wants to organize a Flash mob at the gallery and needs a little help. Carry will give money to Tracy for this help. Items transferred are suspicious in nature but not outright illegal. Tracy’s money troubles help her overlook the suspicious nature of the requests.

Subsequently, Tracy has been having an ongoing dialog with her brother about stealing specific items (Stamps) from the National Gallery. Tracy will have correspondence on her work computer, personal phone, and home computer relating to her conspiracy to have some valuable items stolen.

Carry is technically savvy in that she knows about steganography tools and encryption. She hides many of her correspondence in steg files and encrypted files. She purchases a tablet computer and sets it up to use her catsumtwelve email account dealings with Alex, setting up the the flash mob, Carry is interested in security, schedules, events, and locations where art will be displayed.

Unfortunately for everyone involved, Joe, Tracy’s ex-husband, installed a key logger onto her computer prior to the divorce to monitor Tracy, discovers the conspiracy to commit theft and turns her into the police. This reveals the contact between Tracy and Carry leading to Carry’s Tablet and phone being seized as well revealing the separate defacing plot.

Law enforcement has seized everyone's devices, and has contracted your company to perform an email forensics investigation of the information that were captured via the keylogger.

### Activity Evidence:

The email messages that were generated by the spyware installed on Tracy's Macbook  air, and periodically emailed to Joe are available [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JQRbDQb7UQ3Tld8KTcJIOI_MHGJ4rPG3/view).

### Deliverable:

Submit a report of your forensic investigation provide screenshots of evidence, a timeline of events, and any other information of interest.

A template for the report can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17p_RC_qX4hiRg78fyv4HWa7MXaxS84n7/edit).
